We concluded our spiritual gifts sermon series last week, and I hope you've had a chance to take the spiritual gifts inventory that went out last week.
And if you've had a chance to walk through that, I would love to hear your experiences and what God is revealing to you through that.
If you have questions after that, if you want to talk more about the gifts that perhaps that lifted up, because that is my hardest to help you discern to hear clearly the voice of God where your gifts are, because when you know where your gifts are, then we can help you find the place.
where God has uniquely gifted and equipped and called you to serve.
And we want you to find that place because we know when we're serving in the gifts, then we are finding the fulfillment that God has gifted you to fulfill.
And so I'm excited to continue hearing those stories of clarity of discerning God's gifts in your life.
And so I continue to pray for you in that.
But today we're starting a sermon series called God's Faithfulness.
Yesterday, today and forever.
And the scriptures that we're gonna be looking at this morning come from Exodus chapter three, and then Hebrews chapter 13.
Let us listen for the word of the Lord.
He answered, I will certainly be with you.
And this will be the sign to you that I'm the one who sent you.
When you bring the people out of Egypt, you will all worship God at this mountain.
Then Moses asked God, if I go to the Israelites and say to them,
The God of your ancestors has sent me to you and they ask me, what is his name?
What should I tell them?
God replied to Moses, I am who I am.
This is what you are to say to the Israelites.
I am has sent me to you.
God also said to Moses, say this to the Israelites, the Lord, the God of your ancestors, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac,
and the God of Jacob has sent me to you.
This is my name forever.
This is how I have to be remembered in every generation.
Go and assemble the elders of Israel and say to them, the Lord, the God of her ancestors, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob has appeared to me and said, I have paid close attention to you and to what has been done to you in Egypt.
And I have promised you that I will bring you up from the misery of Egypt, to the land of the Canaanites, hethites, Amorites,
Here's Ites, Hivites and Jebusites, a land flowing with milk and honey.
And then Hebrews chapter 13.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
Therefore, through Him, let us continually offer up to God a sacrifice of praise.
That is the fruit of lips that confess His name.
Don't neglect to do what is good and to share, for God is pleased with such sacrifices.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
Thanks be to God.
Heavenly Father, may the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be pure and acceptable in your side, O Lord, our rock and our redeemer.
Amen.
So the next three weeks, we're gonna be focusing on this theme of God's faithfulness yesterday, today and forever.
And this is our focus on generosity in the life of our congregation.
And perhaps you have been a part of church where
conversation around money or finances has been something that has been very off-putting to you.
And I want to receive that because I know there have been opportunities in places in different people's lives where they've been wounded and communities of faith where finances have not been handled or discussed in a proper way.
But we are committed to talking about generosity, to talking about giving because we see that it is important and what we have in Scripture.
Jesus spends a tremendous amount of time talking
about the role of generosity, about the place of finances in the life of a believer.
Paul spends much of his letters talking about the importance of investing in the ministry so that the church can thrive, so that the gospel can be proclaimed.
We see in Acts, the early church when the Holy Spirit falls upon them that they are very much concerned about how they're going to be generous together to make
the work of Christ happened.
If it's something that Jesus talked about, if it's something that Paul talked about, if it's something that we see God talking about extensively through the Old Testament, if we see that it's something that the early church was concerned with, that we as God's people in 2026 cannot act as if this is not something that we are called to embrace, to consider, to prayerfully think about in our own discipleship and our own life in Jesus Christ.
And we are called to be a generous people because of what God has done in us and through us and what God continues to have before us.
And so my prayer is that wherever you are on this topic that you would open your heart, that you would open yourself for God's Holy Spirit to speak to you in a new and a fresh way about what the Scriptures have to teach us about God's invitation in our lives, to give generously in so many ways, to be a blessing to bring the gospel, to bring the good news,
to our own church, to our own community, but ultimately as Jesus calls us, to the very ends of the earth.
And as I was praying for this series, God kept bringing me back to this verse in Hebrews chapter 13.
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
Now, if you've never memorized scripture in your life, this is like one of the easiest ones to memorize, okay?
To me, it is one of the most important verses in the entire New Testament.
because it clearly gives us the understanding of who Jesus is.
And so my invitation is over the next three weeks, write this on an index card, put it somewhere where you are everyday looking at it and that it can become a reminder to you that when you wake up in the morning, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever, that when troubles fall upon you, you can say, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today and forever.
Then when there's a time of celebration, you can remind yourself, Jesus Christ is the same yesterday,
today and forever.
This verse is a promise.
This verse is a declaration.
This word is a reminder and assurance of who our God is.
And we hear this truth in the book of Hebrews, but we can make this declaration in Hebrews because of what we see in the book of Exodus.
The passage that we read in Exodus is the beginning of the call of Moses.
And like we've been looking at the last several weeks, again, church, Moses is called by God out of a bush that is on fire but does not burn up.
Our God is talking to Moses, calling him out of a burning bush.
That's weird.
But it's in the Bible.
And it's true.
And we believe it to be so.
And as Moses is on his face, on the Holy ground, after he's removed his sandals,
He asked God this important question because Moses knows he's just a person like you and I, by the way.
Moses wasn't anybody special.
He was flesh and blood, born of a woman just like me and you.
And he knew that when he stood before the Israelites and made this declaration, hey, by the way, you have been enslaved by Pharaoh, you've been beaten, you've been enslaved.
Life has been really hard, but by the way, I'm just gonna go to him and tell him to let us go and he's gonna let him go.
They're gonna look at me and say that I'm crazy.
So who can I tell them has sent me?
Because they're gonna need more than just my word.
And so God says to Moses this, he says, tell them, I am who I am.
The God of your ancestors, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob has sent me to you.
The Israelites.
We as followers of Jesus are not left to ponder in darkness and uncertainty to wonder what God is like or who God is.
He has given us himself.
He has identified himself and made known the attributes and the character of who he is.
We lovingly worship and follow a God who has revealed himself to us.
to tell us who he is, what he loves, and what he yearns to see in the lives of his children.
When God tells Moses his divine name, that I am who I am, Moses is given confidence.
Because this isn't some obscure God that just shows up.
This is a God who tells Moses, you already know who I am.
because I am who I have been and I am who I am in this moment and I will be who I will be.
I am unchanging.
I am the guy that you already know because of Abraham.
I'm the guy that you already know because of Isaac.
I'm the guy that you already know because of Jacob.
I'm the guy that you already know because of that guy, Joseph, who by the way became
the right-hand man to Pharaoh and who brought his family up and saved you all from famine because I revealed to him in a dream what was coming.
Do you remember I am this same God?
You already know who I am.
You know the faithfulness of my promise.
You know that I promised Abraham that my descendants would be as numerous as the stars in the sky.
You know that I made a specific promise
to him that you all would be my people and I am who I am.
I'm that same God who made the promise and I'm the same God who hears your cries in Egypt now.
God is so generous to Moses.
God is so generous to the Israelites because he grounds himself in events that we understand and people that they knew
grounding himself in our time and our place.
God exists above all time, but yet he identifies himself by things that we can understand.
But as he does this, he wants us to know that he, although times change, all those cultures change, all those circumstances change, even the physical landscape of the earth changes, that he is unchanging.
From generation to generation, that the same God who made a promise to Abraham is the same God who's speaking to Moses out of the burning bush.
He is not a God who is fickle.
He is not a God who is fluid.
He is telling Moses and he's telling the Israelites and he's telling us in the book of Hebrews that we can build our life on the faithfulness of God.
Because everything else in your life can change.
Everything else in your life can fail.
Everything else in your life can disappoint.
But God is unfailing.
God is ever steady.
God is eternally present.
God is perfect in every way.
This is why Jesus tells us that the wise man builds his life upon the rock.
This is why we call God the rock of ages because it never shifts.
It never moves.
We ground our lives in the rock of ages so that when the world around us does begin to shake and wobble and all things begin to spin, we know where our point of reference is.
I am is with us.
I am is with you.
God sends us, Jesus, again, to remind us in ways that we can understand.
And the full incarnation of being fully human and fully divine, just in case we didn't understand what God said when He said, I am who I am.
I'm the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob.
He sends His son, Jesus, to dwell among us, to show us fully what the truth of God is.
Because as the scripture say, in the fullness, in Jesus Christ, the fullness of God was pleased to dwell.
Not part of God, not half of God, but the fullness of God was pleased to dwell.
So that when we looked upon the face of Jesus, we looked upon the very face of God.
And if God is the one who was and is and is to come, then Jesus Christ also is the one who's the same yesterday, today and forever.
He's eternally present with the Father.
He is the one
who we can build our life upon.
And the writer of Hebrews is dealing with people asking questions, raising objections about Jesus, trying to diminish who he really is or the gospel that he really preached.
And the writer of Hebrews responds with the clearest and most profound sentence perhaps of the New Testament.
And we know that he's writing, of course, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit.
All scripture is inspired and God breathed.
And so as the writer of Hebrews is writing this truth, this is not his truth, this is the truth God has revealed to him by the power of the Holy Spirit.
And Jesus tells us that he is going to send the Holy Spirit to remind us of everything that he said and to confirm all truth.
And if he is writing this in Hebrews, he is confirming the truth that Jesus is the same yesterday, today and forever, because it's supposed to be an echo back to the burning bush.
Jesus says, you can serve me.
You can trust me.
You can love me.
I can save you.
I can protect you.
I can prosper you.
I can forgive you.
I can restore you because I am.
He says this in John's gospel and they try to kill him.
You remember this.
The Pharisees jumped back because he's using the same name in Exodus 3.
because I am the God who was, I'm the God who is, and I'm the God who is to come.
Jesus Christ is the Lord, Jesus Christ is our Savior, Jesus Christ is the King, Jesus Christ is eternally the same.
And this is important for us as people of faith to continue to understand, to continue to reflect upon, because today our confidence, today our dependence,
Today our reliance on the faithfulness of God is not built upon a guess.
It's not built upon speculation of whether God will act.
We have the sure and certain hope of who God is today because of who God has been in ages past.
It's solidified through that generational testimony through the witness that has been passed down from generation to generation.
of how those believers who have come before us have encountered, have experienced the promised goodness of God, how they have read and searched the scriptures and found them to be true because who they have experienced God to be, how they have witnessed the power of God before Him, before them, and how they have known the promised goodness of God who was also given to those before them.
See the Israelites who Moses led out of captivity,
A new part got added on to their story.
They say that we serve the God who's the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and the God who brought us out of captivity under Pharaoh.
You see, that becomes another characteristic of the faithfulness of God in ages past.
And we continue to worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God who brought the Israelites out of slavery under Pharaoh,
We worship the God who sent His Son to dwell among us.
We worship the God who gave His Son as a ransom on Calvary.
We worship the God who has been at work in this church for years before we have gathered today.
And so just a moment, we're gonna hear some witnesses of God's faithfulness from the past 10 years.
And some of the stories you're gonna hear are people that are still a part of this church today.
Some of the people that share have gone on to heaven and are now with Christ.
Some of the people that you're gonna see have moved to different places because of their jobs or situations and are now worshiping God in other places in our country and around the world.
But we go back and listen to these stories because they are reminders of where God has been at work.
Because the same Jesus that they talk about is the same one that we worship today.
Because he was faithful
yesterday.
And so let us hear these stories of God's faithfulness from the past several years.
There's something sacred about looking back.
When we pause and reflect, we begin to see the story God has been writing.
Time moves quietly and we often don't realize how much has changed until we remember where we once stood.
It all happens quickly.
Children grow up.
generations of faithful saints in our eternity.
Military families come and go, yet through every season and every change one truth remains.
God is faithful.
For ten years we have dedicated several weeks of the year to highlight the faithfulness of God through the testimonies of this congregation.
The stewardship series is not only about finances, it goes much deeper than money.
It's about the reason behind giving.
Generations of lives are changed for eternity.
It doesn't take much effort to see the way that God has blessed us around the community by your generosity.
And at the heart of that generosity is a church family that has been profoundly impacted by the goodness of God.
We've seen what God has done in the past.
We see how God is truly moving in the present.
And we know that he has good plans to continue his work among us.
From the birth of this church in 1989 to the activity center being built in the early 2000s, what started then has continued to accelerate.
So on this first Sunday, we'll look back to the last several years of testimony.
I received the invitation to get baptized.
accepted Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior and my children did as well and it's somewhere that we are proud that our children are learning about Jesus Christ.
Seven years ago I found this church.
I walked into the activity center and was welcomed with tons of love and grace.
Changed my world.
Why do I believe so strongly in this church?
I'll give you a 17 year old answer.
Our grandson was christened in this church.
17 years ago was confirmed in this church and is working very strongly with the youth group in this church.
We believe in this church to bring up the youth and bring them up in a real Christian education.
It just really keeps our whole family grounded
And this church has given our kids an eternal perspective that they're carrying through their lives as they're now adults.
And we can see it making a difference in the decisions they make.
And it's been an absolutely wonderful experience.
I just feel like when I come to church, it changes their lives because they're actually learning about Jesus who saved us.
Coming here,
was at a very hard part in my faith journey.
I was just beginning honestly and we were able to meet with one of the pastors and they took the time to sit with us and to listen to our story and genuinely hear who we are and it didn't feel like we were judged, it didn't feel like we were being nudged anywhere and that meant so much to us.
From there you know I wasn't even baptized yet and
And two years later, I eventually did.
People are always praying for us and that they believe that we have strength, courage, and we can transform into something new and great.
Came to the church at a time in my life and I was experiencing a lot of struggle and definitely some difficulties.
And it made the biggest difference in the world that I was able to come to a place surrounded in fellowship that people were so, so welcoming to me.
The fact that I was able to walk right in the door like a lost puppy and have a bunch of different people approach me and tough times that I experienced with the church's support made me a better person overall.
And I was more ready to face more challenges that present themselves.
Throughout my journey from the start of fight school to now being here in Virginia without those experiences and without that support system, I doubt I wasn't able to
be as effective or make it through as well as I had.
People up north ask us why we settled here.
We said, too many, we'd like time in our church.
People hardly ever ask us what it's like to live in Florida.
They always say, what's going on with your church?
Because they know such a big part of our lives.
One thing it truly touches my heart is I raised a daughter's in this church many, many years ago.
and now we have granddaughters who are being raised in the church and just to see them and the growth they've had and what the church has meant to them.
I mean three generations and it's all because of this church.
I was one of the first children in this church and I remember sitting in the funeral home having Sunday school in I think a director's office with Miss Joan Daniels giving me marshmallows and
It's just been a full 360 with this church and now coming back and having my own children in a Sunday school room in a building where Jacob and I got to be married and Sunday school teachers that love them and bring them marshmallows.
I think it's important also to tithe and be a part of this community, be invested in this community.
I think we have a tendency to forget because of where we live, the beauty of it, that there is a definite need within our community for people to be helped out.
And even people that are just here for a very short time at the base.
One of the beautiful stories that was told was how we were able to fly in
the parents of the soldiers that lost their lives during the terrorist attack on the base.
They say the sign of an active and growing church is, would your community miss you if you closed up your church and left town?
I say yes.
We would be sorely missed.
I think children would be hungry.
I think the store would be missed.
I think all of our activities and ministries in our community would be greatly missed.
With each opportunity we've had to serve in our church, our relationship to God has grown exponentially, whether it was a mission trip to Costa Rica, the back to school bash programs, or even working in local shelters with local ministries and things like that.
We have seen that the love of God is a universal language.
And I've found personally, in all instances, that any time I felt like I was going there with the objective to help someone or to be a helping hand, that in pretty much every example, I met people that were more influential in my life personally than I could have ever hoped to be on theirs.
We started attending here in 2004 and each time that we've moved back, we moved back to this area because of this church.
To include recent retirement, this was where we wanted to be.
Having lived all over the country, this was home and this is why we moved back to this area just mostly because of this church.
To be here about this church and to watch it grow.
We realized that we wanted to be part of this community.
We have our family to be a part of it.
That's what I think we've gotten most out of this church is just a sense of a bigger family as we move and we'll have to move again one day.
Since we've been coming here as our kids have gotten older we've experienced nursery, elementary and youth programs with them and every one of them has been not only a blessing for them but a blessing for us.
Being a military family you know we uproot our lives quite a bit and the hardest thing about that is
especially with our children and how they have to fit in a new community every time.
And one of the biggest things I appreciate is here at Perdido Bay, both my daughter and my son, have found those friends, you know, and they've been able to mesh into the community and feel actually like they're a part, you know, a part of the community.
We're in the past, I've felt we've moved places and we're there kind of just passing by, you know, but this has felt a lot more like home, you know, even though it's temporary.
We are so thankful that we've been able to call this church, our church family and be a part of giving back to our community that we truly feel belong to.
We don't have the words, I guess, to say like the role that this church has played in our lives.
We're getting ready to move and it'll have just been about two years that we've been here, but I can't imagine what those two years would have been like if we hadn't stumbled upon this church.
It has made a world of difference in our family's life, and we hope and pray that we'll be able to find something half as good as this church at our next duty station, and I think that we'll be okay if we do.
God is at work here.
This congregation continually rises to every occasion that he places before us.
Almost a decade ago, our backpack program fed 40 families per weekend from two schools.
Today, we're feeding 10 times that number, 400 families per weekend from four schools.
On one hand, this is disheartening because of the great need in our area.
But on the other hand, it is truly invigorating to know that God is providing for the needs of a massive amount of people beyond these walls.
And it's all because of the work He does in the hearts of those inside of these walls.
May these stories of faith strengthen your hope as we remember.
that God was good, God is good, and God will be good.
Amen.
As we reflect back on those stories, we are reminded that the ministry of Christ is a ministry that changes lives in profound and generational ways.
The work of the church has built the foundation that we stand upon now.
But we know that God has much ahead for us.
The 10 years from now, we look back that we will continue to hear the stories of God's faithfulness.
But God is calling those who are present now to continue to be those who steward what God has entrusted to us, to continue investing in the life-changing ministry and mission of this community of faith.
Because the same God that was at work in the lives of those that we just heard and have seen in the past generations is the same God that is at work among us today.
And I want to share how encouraged I am.
This year we did something different than we've done before.
I reached out to those who are a part of our elected late leadership and those who have shown themselves to be committed in giving over the last several years.
And it wasn't about the amount given but about faithfulness, about dedication of giving year after year after year.
And I reached out to them and I said, I would like to invite you to be those who take the first steps in investing in what God is doing here for the year of 2026.
As our lay leaders, as those who are committed to giving, to show the congregation, the trust that we have in Jesus Christ, the trust that we have in the mission that he is doing, the trust that we have in what he is going to do among us.
And as we stand here today, not even starting our stewardship campaign, we've received 65 commitments.
That's not 65 individuals.
That's 65 families who have already given $680,000, which is almost half of our pledge goal of $1,250,000.
That's just a goal.
We know that God can meet that and the God can surpass that because I promise you that every dollar that is given is used for the glory of God, for the mission of Christ, for the spreading of the gospel.
And so I invite you to begin praying now.
that as we come together on March 8th, and over this next week, many of you, if you remember the church, you're gonna be getting a letter in the mail with a pledge card, and I would invite you to begin praying about how God is leading you to give in this coming year.
To consider, as we reflect upon the scriptures, I love the verse that God desires a cheerful giver, a gift not given under compulsion, but one that you want to offer to the Lord.
Because that is something that God alone can bring you to a place of knowing.
But I invite you to consider how God is counting you
to be generous, to invest in the life-changing work that we have seen God doing, but we know God has not finished doing.
So as we continue looking at God's faithfulness today and God's faithfulness tomorrow and forever, may we rejoice that we know with certainty that God is changing lives in this place.
May we continue to commit to investing, to trusting, to serving, to worshiping,
to following, to depending, to listening to our Savior, Jesus Christ, who has shown himself to be faithful, who we know has promised faithfulness today.
And we know has promised his faithfulness to all generations, because as he says, he is the alpha in the Omega, the beginning and the first and the last.
And because he lives, we too can and shall live.
And so as we live, let us live as those who are fully alive, fully committed, fully invested in what Jesus Christ has called us to do as the people of Perdido Bay Methodist Church, because I cannot wait to hear the stories of faith as we continue to sow and see the work of God among us.
May we give thanks to Jesus Christ, who is the same yesterday, today, and forever.
Amen.